It's a lot of small things that finally add up to
make any difference. For example, I used to teach
in OCS and also up in the military academy. For
example, you go to a mess hall and you see where the
lines stand. Usually they're waiting to go in.
It's open because they're hungry. And you look
around and you see cigarette butts all over the
ground. One would conclude, now this is probably a
undisciplined unit. No, that's not it. You can
take that same unit without beating them over the
head and put butt cans along the way. And you'll
find that that same unit would use those butt cans
because they know they themselves have to go
around and pick up the cigarette. So most of the
deficiencies and decrepancies in the unit is
because the leader, supposed to be a leader,
doesn't anticipate and doesn't think and doesn't
support his men, doesn't make life easier for
them. If you do that, they feel obligated to do
something for you. And if you never get them to
where they feel obligated, you know, cooperate
and not let you down, not let the fellow men down
appear or disappear. Now, we're talking about
this right now, and I'd like to get on this topic,
and that is leadership. In a sense, now, you're
defining leadership for me. Is that right? Well,
I'm describing it. You're talking about
anticipation. Would you define it for me? Well, of
course, simplicity of leadership is influencing
others. And what values do you think that a leader
should have? What values? What values? You've
already mentioned high moral values.
And integrity, you mentioned that, too. Well, of
course, I'm not going to tick off all of the
qualities of the leader, you know, which
integrity, and all the other things, and loyalty.
Loyal also, by the way,
is to your superiors as well as even more so to your
subordinates. Now we get into an area, and this is
very interesting, When are you a chronic or
consistent yes guy?
Or do you have the courage or your conviction to
disagree? Of course, now we're describing
judgment. You're being disloyal if you know full
well that whatever he said or plans to do is wrong.
If you let him go ahead and do it. So then in the case
of a judgment, you've got to go in and maybe by
yourself close the door and say this is what the
situation is. You're making a big mistake. And
it's just not my opinion, because I know what the
situation is. And if he said, and you listened to
him, and he said, well, I considered all of that.
But I know what I'm doing. You could even go so far as
to say, would you mind if we go together to the next
station line and discuss this? Because I don't
want to put you on the spot. And many of them will
say, yeah, come on, let's go. It all depends on the
rapport you have, and you have to cultivate that.
You just don't all at once go in and disagree with
somebody. Now, you're not brown-nosing at all to
do that. That's the way to do business. I do that to
anybody. I do that to my friend.
But many people won't do that. First, they start
picking a fight with a superior headquarters.
Maybe they haven't got the guts to pick it with a
commanding officer, but they'll pick it with a
staff because he outranks them and gives them a
hard time. In other words, you just develop an
environment that is not very healthy.
So we could go on and on on many things about
accomplishing
an objective, particularly in a military unit.
And you have to constantly work at it. You never get
to the unit, you know, well, I've got it where I want
it now, and I can relax. You're always trying to
improve while harassing. Now, I went out with a
commanding officer of mine, I'm not going to
mention it, at Christmas time. The way that I had
already been trained, the time that you go around
and inspect the mess and buck them up and
discipline them, It's not on Christmas Day or
Thanksgiving Day, but it's either before or some
other time. Because those guys get up real early,
you know, and they've been working and they've got
to decorate the dining hall. Well, I was so
embarrassed because I went around with a
commanding officer, and I was with him. I found an
excuse if I'd known that. It was on Christmas
morning. He went in there and he started raising
hell, first because somebody was delayed in
calling attention, and Then he didn't like the way
the tables decorated. He checked out the kitchen.
And he didn't like what he saw there. He didn't like
the way they was cooking. And he proceeded to line
them all up and really chew them out. And as we
walked out, I looked back around at them, and they
were astounded, amazing. Kind of looked at each
other, what in the world happened here. They were
very proud of everything that they were doing.
Now, he had an artillery background, so I'll say
the infantry just, they suffer together, and they
have a little bit more compassion. Now, I would do
the same thing that he did, but I would have done it
either the day before or the day after, but mainly
before, so that you know what to expect. Now, a
battle group commander or battalion commander,
they're closer to the troops. He may not hit that
mess for another year or maybe even more than that,
since he's got many men.
So he doesn't really build the morale of that. He
doesn't discipline that unit. They just feel
frustrated, and this is a hell of a way to do it. And
they'll think about it the rest of the day. You fall
there a day, and it's Christmas. They should be
complimented for having gotten up early and
everything they're doing. Do you think that
people in the military get ahead the same way as
people in professional or business life? I think
it's a great similarity, though, in many cases.
What are the differences? Now you're almost
talking about this book, What Makes Sammy Run. Did
you ever read that book years ago about this guy who
who studied every situation and can exploit it and
exploit people and go to the top. I think it
probably happens. There are a lot of
similarities, but the objectives are a little bit
different, because one is personal gain, and that
may occur in the military in most of the cases. But
to a lesser extent, are you saying? Yeah. The thing
that many people don't understand, civilians I'm
talking about, is that the only objective of
having a military establishment is to win in case
we have war, to save lives and have the equipment,
so forth. We're faced with that. Of course, the
other mission, the main mission, is to, that I
certainly believe in, and most people, that arms
secure peace,
that strength will deter war. Weakness will
invite war. So you have to be strong in peacetime.
You can't wait, like we did in Korea, until we get
involved in the fight and play catch up. Or like we
really did in Vietnam, the same way, although we
had the ability. So you work longer hours. You make
more sacrifices. The family makes the
sacrifices, just like your wife is sacrificing.
That's because you're gone all the time. And she's
working. That's one thing. But they have to raise
the children, hardship, get their furniture
lost, broken. In other words, that's really
rough. So in other words, you have to sacrifice
more climbing in the military leadership
positions than you do in the business, you think? I
don't think I would describe my advancement as
climbing. I think you do things like you think they
should be done. And that will follow. I never in my
mind ever said, now I think, now I won't contradict
myself, I wanted to go to the Army War College
because that would be climbing, that would be
advancement, I know that's what you had in mind,
that's climbing. But I never considered if I did
this, then I would look good to the superior and I
would win brownie points. Now in the Army right
now, In fact, there was a book written about this,
and the Army has been reacting to that book for
quite some time. That is that we have ruined the
Army office structure because we put such
emphasis on gaining brownie points that we don't
look at our unit like I just described. We only do
the things that we will look good and to hell with
the other guy. Of course, we would like to look like
we didn't do it that way But we're only interested
in our own personal advancement. And we're only
looking for the jobs that will help us. Well, do you
think there's any validity? Well, it all depends
on the individual. Oh, it depends on the
individual. Yeah. Well, would you have
considered yourself ambitious? Yeah.
Because I wanted to excel. I wanted as far as I can
remember. even in a selfish way. I wanted to excel
in school, but I didn't want to study because I
wanted to do the other things. As a result, I was
just an average student. I wanted to excel in
athletics.
I was going to graduate from college. I didn't know
how, but I was going to do it some way. I mean, by
working and not by cheating, of course. And what
about in the military? Were you ambitious? You
just said that you never thought about becoming a
general, yet at the same time, You wanted to excel,
were you ambitious? I wanted to excel, I wanted to
be...
I wanted to make, I would call that ambitious,
because I wanted, but I wasn't going to, I didn't
ever attempt to walk over the bodies of somebody
else to get there. In other words, I never tried to
enhance my, or reflect favorably on somebody at
the expense of making somebody else, even if it's a
half-truth, you know, like, anything went wrong,
it's his fault, and... Even though he's claiming
credit, I'm the one behind all this. And some do
that. And I'm sure they do that in civilian life.
Oh, sure. Okay. There's another issue along these
lines that I'd like to have you comment on, and that
is that some people maintain that there's a
military mind, that the military does things a
certain way, which is different than the
civilians. Do you think that there's a military
mind?
You ask me all sorts of questions that are not
simple to answer. No, they're not simple at all. To
a civilian, there's a military mind, especially a
civilian that's never had any experience in the
military. Now, I'm sure your attitude towards a
military mind would be different than somebody
who's never had any, because you know what
discipline is. If you've been aboard ship,
everybody's got to pull this job to make it run. And
they've done a tremendous job. Look at all these
years we've operated nuclear
submarines and carriers with only minor
accidents. They think they're minor. But you have
to do it right. Look what happened on this carrier
here recently when they had this terrible
accident with this Aggie, you know, which wasn't
his fault. I mean, he wasn't on drugs or anything.
He just didn't hit the carrier. So experience
then, I think, influence whether or not there's a
military mind. Now, I say it's a military mind.
What is the military mind? Would you define it?
Well, I think it's a disciplined individual
who likes to see things done according to a plan.
And he makes a plan. Because he doesn't want to get
caught short. He's always thinking ahead. Now
it's probably called a scenario of what might
happen. What if, in other words. What if this? What
if that? And he has mentally made a plan in that
situation. So he tries not to ever be surprised,
whether it's running down the highway or whether
it's in military subjects or whatever it is. or go
into a movie or play.
Mimi gets mad at me because she says I'm a pessimist
because I'm always thinking of the things that
might happen. She says, why don't you pause to be an
optimist? This is a thing that could happen, and
I'm just thinking about now if it would happen,
what would I do? What could we do? Was it getting a
flat on the road or whatever it is? I'm thinking
about it. Getting gasoline or running out of
gasoline. So they planned. if he's got a good one.
We've already talked about patriotism. He's
actually an individual, or you could say he's
selfless, because he will put principle
above himself.
You hope that he's an honorable individual, just
like at the military academy and elsewhere, where
you have duty, honor, and country, that he won't
lie still so that When he says something, you can
take it as being factual, the truth.
So you add those and a lot of other things, and I
don't have time to think about none. And you see his
style of life. He even attempts to be neat. That is,
keep his hair relatively cut. I mean, according to
the styles, it's different today. It's close to
breath. He tried. He wears neat clothes and so
forth. He mowed his yard. I even mowed the vacant
lot before they built this house over there. I had a
civilian friend up the street. I'm sure he said,
because of military money, he said, I see you out
there mowing that vacant lot. That's not your lot.
Why are you doing that? I said, because I can't
stand those weeds. You know, I can't stand it.
Right up to my line. He thought it was stupid, and
he's right. You know, it only improves. But I
couldn't have a military mine. They asked me why.
You wanted to see it neat. Yeah. They said, why? You
sure do keep your jasmine out here. I trim it all the
time, you know, and keep the leaves trimmed out.
And I have people stop and say, you've got the
neatest looking place ever. I could have said,
well, it's called a military mine. I just can't
stand to see things that's not orderly. And I think
that's part of all these years of training, see.
Yeah. I can't stand to see clothes on the floor
hanging. I hate to see people that have no sense of
value as far as money and things like that go. Now,
I'm sure others may view me as being queer.
So they could call that a military mind. Also,
military people don't make good presidents.
Eisenhower didn't. Main reason, because he was a
guy. First, you know, we had the U-2 flight. And
they said, now, Mr. President, that's a CIA
flight. There is no reason at all for you to accept
responsibility. You go ahead and tell the world
that this was, a country did this, and I apologize
for it. But he didn't. He said, absolutely not. I'm
personally taking the responsibility. In other
words, he didn't try to cover up or evade anything.
And there are a lot of other things that occurred
during his administration that he did it the way
that you'd expect a military guy would do. Now, the
reason why they don't make a president is they're
not flexible enough. I think Reagan would be a good
president. I don't know how flexible it is. We'll
wait and see. Well, do you think that the military
mind is inflexible, then, by Kenosha? You're
saying that they're not flexible enough to be a
good politician. No, what I mean is that you've got
to evade. To be a good politician, it's not to me you
have to be a liar. Lawyers make good politicians.
Yeah. Because you've got to be able to take a guy you
know damn good well as guilty as hell And you go to
paint that picture, and you say, well, I'm
defending his rights, you know, that's for him,
for a fair trial. And you make him out as a good
Samaritan, and that poor innocent woman probably
raped as a prostitute, you know, and all that sort
of thing. So you try her and find her guilty. Now, a
politician does well because he can be on one side
one day and one on the other. And you can
rationalize that. You say, well, things change.
just like Fulbright said, well, I was wrong. But
the military mentality doesn't work that way. I'm
not sure there's a military mind. I'm trying to
explain the way that someone who I think is
efficient, the civilian would call that a
military mind. He's more rigid in his thinking. I
hope I'm not that way. I think I'm broad-minded.
I'm not one that Also, it changes my mind on things.
There's no question about that.
But I'm just telling you their style of life and
also the way they approach problems. One would
say, especially if somebody's never had any
military training,
that you seem to have a military mind. Now, when
they say a military mind, what they mean is they're
rigid and blind to the realities of life. They live
in an entirely different world. Why don't they get
out here to the real world where we are? What do you
think? And I don't think Maxwell Taylor, for
example, has a military mind at all. Even though
he's really everything I described, that
describes Maxwell Taylor.
I don't think good pastor, who was the
superintendent of the military academy, he's
another real intellectual we have in the
military. You know, he's a Ph.D., and he's
a patent, probably, is what the civilians would
call the military mind. Okay. Now, for the final
topic of the interview, let's turn to what has
happened at Texas A&M during the last generation.
Did you know General Oral Rudder? I think I met him
one time, but I really can't say that I knew him
because he was ahead of me considerably at A&M, and
I didn't meet him during the war, as I recall. He
might have been at a rally. We had Aggie Mustard and
Naples during the war. He might have been there at
that time. We got shelled. I was
wondering, during that time, of course, there
were a number of very important changes. In the
school? In the school at A&M, and one was ending the
mandatory corps and allowing people to come who do
not want to join the corps of cadets. What's your
feeling on that? I thought that was a good policy.
Why? Well, because you can't maintain a big school
like that and have it strictly military.
Certainly, if he hadn't done it when Vietnam came
along and ROTC got so unpopular,
I think it probably was good for the school, mainly
because I thought females were good and you don't
want them unless they want to take ROTC. Okay, what
did you think about his decision to allow women to
come to A&M? I thought that was good also.
See, it's an isolated place, of course, if you
don't think you live there. We used to hitchhike to
Denton. Mimi attended TSCW. They called it CIA
there, Denton, Texas. All female schools, so we
sort of adopted each other, you know. They
supported us going to football games in Dallas and
also at Fort Worth. And we used to hitchhike from
College Station on weekends. to Dentman by, can
you imagine that? Get up there on Saturday and come
back on Sunday.
But I think that was a good thing because it's
just healthy and good for female companionship in
the classroom. But I would certainly like to see a
strong cadet corps and maintain the same
standards, which I think they have, eliminate
that city hazing, although, I mean, you know, to be
more mature, certainly we're more mature now than
we were 15 and 20 and 30 years ago, to say May,
because of the changes with May.
But that's important, because A&M has a national
reputation. You can go anywhere, and they say,
you're from A&M, and you have some old time, and you
say, and this isn't just a cliche, but it seems to
be. A&M produced more also in World War II than even
West Point. And we're proud of that. And our nation
was proud because that was important. We had OCS,
but here we had somebody that had been trained and
was part of the training. And they all did an
outstanding job, far as I know.
And it's good for them to carry on that tradition.
And I hope that there is friction between the Corps
cadets and the non-military.
See, after World War II, we had a lot of veterans.
And they made real fine students. Of course, they
were mature and married. Most of them, boy, they
were ready to get on with their life. I
would like to see us a strong Corps. with all of the
traditions, Leslie, hazing. What about allowing
the decision to integrate the school and allow
blinds into Texas A&M? What was your opinion of
that? Oh, great.
But I was in hope that maybe we would phase out
Prairie View when that occurred, but I can see now
where that's not going to be possible. Either
you've got to really support it or phase it out. By
support, I mean adequate buildings. But if they
breach the capacity, like we say now, they
probably will need Prairie View as an overflow,
certainly for the black. Because they raise the
interest standard and so forth. You're going to
eliminate some people that normally would be
coming in. And as a corollary, I was wondering what
you thought about the draft. What's your opinion,
which this doesn't have to do with A&M, but what's
your opinion as far as reinstituting the draft in
the United States? Of course, I think it should be
reinstituted, but I don't think now is the time,
mainly because of the mood of the country. Now, if
Reagan can continue to be popular or have the
respect and the support of the nation and
Congress, then perhaps he can do it. But now, I'm
saying, after this forgiving of the draft dodgers
and that other, I think you'll have turmoil, but
certainly we should consider continuing
registration. You've heard this so much over and
over. It's not the active duty forces that need to
draft. It's the reserve. You've got to build up a
train, a reservoir of trained people as
individual replacement. And we don't have it.
That's what the draft produces. Because you know
you're drafted, you do your active duty training,
then you're carried for four years, I guess, or
five years as a inactive reserve and you're
subject to call and we have exercises used to
practicing it's good easy to do that with
computers calling up providing they keep their
their residents up to date in the computer
practice calling them in calling them up and you
say but without the draft i don't know how we're
ever going to have an adequate reserve
and that's that's because We've got to be able to
replace casuals in Europe. And they're going to be
heavy.
And I don't know how we're going to do it. I don't
know how in the world. What about drafting women?
What's your opinion toward that? We get all the
females we want without the draft. Why draft
people you don't need? Well, you say, well, why
don't you put it on the books and not use it? Maybe
something like that. in the case of all that war,
would we want to, but I don't know. What about your
idea of women in combat roles? No. Why not? It's
just, it's too dirty and suffering, and we, this
would be a hell of a nation, and we're reaching that
point with this unisex approach to life. If we have
to rely on our female population to go out, I just
can't see them in the, And war is such a dirty,
terrible thing. Women ministrate that they need
to bathe.
They could never have fought in Italy then. And I
wouldn't want them to, aside now from the sex part
of it. You know, that's one of the big problems now.
The gals get pregnant. And they have children. And
they marry soldiers. In Europe right now, one of
our big problems is if we really alerted and moved
out, what will they do with all those children? The
wife can't go because who's going to take care of
the kids? Well, you say, well, she has to because
she's a key man in our communication unit. So we're
kidding ourselves if we think we can move out on a
total alert and go somewhere in Europe and not have
all sorts of problems of manning. Plus the women
get pregnant. As I just said, they can't lift heavy
objects after a while. Some of the women are small
and can't lift it anyway. So you have to have a man
come along to supplement or to do the job. So where
are you going to use them? In combat, you've got to
carry heavy loads, even throw you an instrument.
And your feet hurt. I just don't see any place.
They're not needed anyways.
So why would we draft and use women? We've got too
many right now. See, support units have to fight
also. Peace time, it's all simple because the
other man comes and helps them. But in peace time,
it's wet, you're muddy, you're sick, you're
scared.
And you're going to find men, unless we change and
all get to be homosexuals, which looks like we're
going to be lesbians and homosexuals or bisexuals
sooner or later. There's still a difference in the
man and the woman, and that difference is not
needed on the battlefield. I don't even agree with
a gal being a fighter pilot. It's true she can go
fight and hopefully she comes back and lands. But
I'd hate to see her go to prison. What would they do
like they did in Vietnam for eight and ten years? Of
course, they'll use them for sex. They'd do it
practically every war they ever had, just like we
talked about there. The German Jews, the Jewish
women, the good-looking, they all kept them out
for sex.
Now, overall, do you think that the changes back to
A&M now, do you think that the changes during those
1960s, do you think that that made A&M a better
institution or not?
I think so. that certainly made them like all other
institutions. It's no longer unique. We used to be
proud of being really the largest military
installation in the United States. Or in some
cases, the world, I've said. Maybe that's our own
propaganda. And it was really fine school. Of
course, the school was much better now than it was
then. And we had a lot of instructors. They had no
more than a master's degree, for example. And as I
read my alumni magazines, we really got some
top-notch people like you, for example, that have
come from other states and not have just a bunch of
texts. And that's inbreeding. And that's one
reason we don't speak very good English is because
of our teachers in high school later on. They spoke
funny just like we did. And they're supposed to be
teaching them. Like when Mimi went on up to Denton,
she had a real good speech teacher. And she took
that as an elective. But the teacher was shocked.
Where in the world did you girls go to school?
So that's good to have. Jefferson came from your
country. He was a dean, as we talked about earlier.
And he was good for anything. And he was one of the
pioneers, along with Dean Kyle. Of course, he was a
local product. So we don't want inbreeding at all.
We want outside. It's a much better school
academically.
And I'd rather trade off this military value for
academic excellence than be hard-headed and say,
well, even though they're not going to be
professional soldiers, make everybody take
ROTC.
Now, I'm not in favor of females being in the band
just because the band doesn't have a female.
That's the national reputation of that band, just
perfection. They even look better on TV as a dozen
persons, if you see that. It's beautiful. And why
have a female in there just because she wasn't
supposed to be? I don't know. What was the result of
that lawsuit? We're still in court. Of course, it
won't ruin the band. It won't be the end of the world
if that's the case. But I hope they all are
generally the size of the mail so we don't end up
having a bunch of little.
I'm out of questions. And we've covered your early
life and your education and career. And I was
wondering your ideas about leadership in A&M. I
was wondering if there was anything else that Do
you think that we should, anything else that was
important in your career, that we should talk
about, or have we done, sort of covered the water
part? I don't think we've talked too much about
everything. Okay, well. Does that gal, when she
types it up, does she edit it, get all the
grammatical errors out of it? Oh, I'll end the
interview.